[docs] Add Assets guide to Home (#28331)
expo/expo: docs/pages/develop/user-interface/assets.mdx

### Load an asset at build time

> **Note:** The `expo-asset` config plugin is only available for SDK 51 and above. If you are using an older SDK, you can load a [using the `useAssets` hook](/versions/v51.0.0/sdk/asset/#useassetsmoduleids).

Install the `expo-asset` library and add the config plugin to the app config file. This plugin will embed the asset file in your native project.

```json app.json
{
  "plugins": [
    [
      "expo-asset",

      {
        "assets": ["./assets/images/example.png"]
      }
    ]
  ]
}
```

The `assets` option takes an array of one or more asset files or directory names to link the file to the native project. The path to each file is relative to the project's root.

When you [create a new native build](/develop/development-builds/create-a-build/), you can import and use the asset in your project without using a `require` or an `import` statement.

For example, the **example.png** is linked by the above config plugin. You can directly import it into your component:

```jsx App.js
import { Image } from 'expo-image';
/* @hide ... */ /* @end */

function App() {

>   return <Image source="example" />;

Reviewer: we might want to mention that this isn't particularly useful, but if some native api expects a resource name then this makes integration with that api easier

Author: I've added the following explanation below the example.

![CleanShot 2024-05-07 at 04 55 46@2x](https://github.com/expo/expo/assets/10234615/d3530e0c-99b5-4e8a-876f-243f6ae0a282)

---
title: Assets
description: Learn about using local and remote assets.
---

> Files such as images, videos, sounds, database files for SQLite, or fonts are considered **assets**. They are not part of your project's JavaScript but are part of your app.

Reviewer: fonts too!

Author: I'm confused. The "fonts" are mentioned.

Your project can use two types of assets: **Local** and **Remote**. This guide will explain how to use both types of assets.

> ## Local assets

Reviewer: in the react-native docs these are typically called static assets, and static assets can actually be "local" or "remote". they can be embedded in the app binary, but they will otherwise be served over the network. this is handled automatically in development.

Author: Thanks for the context! I'll rephrase this and rest of the document to use "static assets" as the correct terminology.

Author: Updated the guide using the above context.

These assets are stored on your file system and can be imported like JavaScript modules using `require` or `import` statements.

For example, to render an image called **example.png** in **App.js**, you can directly use `require` to import the image from the project's **assets/images** directory and pass it to the `<Image>` component:

```jsx App.js
<Image source={require('./assets/images/example.png')} />
```

The bundler automatically provides a width and height for the images imported, as shown in the above example. For more information, see [Static Image Resources](https://reactnative.dev/docs/images#static-image-resources).

Libraries such as `expo-image` and `expo-file-system` work similarly to the `<Image>` component with local assets.

### How are local assets served

Local assets used this way are served over HTTP in development. They are automatically bundled into your app binary at the build time for production apps and served from disk on a device.

### Load a local asset at build time

> > **Note:** The `expo-asset` config plugin is only available for SDK 51 and above. If you are using an older SDK, you can load a [using the `useAssets` hook](/versions/unversioned/sdk/asset/#useassetsmoduleids).

Author: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The `expo-asset` config plugin is only available for SDK 51 and above. If you are using an older SDK, you can load a [using the `useAssets` hook](/versions/v51.0.0/sdk/asset/#useassetsmoduleids).
```

Install the `expo-asset` library and add the config plugin to the app config file. This plugin will embed the asset file in your native project.

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-asset",

        {
          "assets": ["./assets/images/example.png"]
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

The `assets` option takes an array of one or more asset files or directory names to link the file to the native project. The path to each file is relative to the project's root.

When you [create a new native build](/develop/development-builds/create-a-build/), you can import and use the asset in your project without using a `require` or an `import` statement.

For example, the **example.png** is linked by the above config plugin. You can directly import it into your component:

```jsx App.js
import { Image } from 'expo-image';
/* @hide ... */ /* @end */

function App() {
  return <Image source="example" />;
}
```

> > **info** For more information on supported file formats used with the config plugin, see [Assets API reference](/versions/unversioned/sdk/asset/#configurable-properties).

Author: ```suggestion
> **info** For more information on supported file formats used with the config plugin, see [Assets API reference](/versions/v51.0.0/sdk/asset/#configurable-properties).
```
